# Software Design Document (SDD)

Project Title: <br/>
Version: <br/>
Date: 5/19/2025 <br/>
Author(s): Emmanuel Tannor <br/>

## 1. Introduction

### 1.1 Purpose

This document exists to record progress made on my project for Arch. It should be viewed by those looking for insight into why I made certain decisions or how I did certain things.

### 1.2 Scope

The project itself will be a linear regression model for stock market prediction, specifically Google's (GOOGL) stock prices, trained and evaluated based off of a data set containing Google stock prices from 2004 to today.

### 1.3 Definitions, Acronyms, and Abbreviations

**API:** Application Programming Surface <br/>
**CSV:** Comma Separated Values. A common file format for tabular data <br/>
**Feature:** An independent variable in a dataset used to predict an outcome <br/>
**Kaggle:** A data science platform for finding and sharing datasets, among other things.<br/>
**Linear Regression:** A statistical method for modeling relationships between a dependent variable and one or more independent variables using a linear equation derived from data.<br/>
**Line of best fit:** A linear equation created using existing data, seeking to minimize the distance between the line and the data present.<br/>
**Prediction:** The output generated by the trained model for new, unseen data.<br/>
**MAE:** Mean Absolute Error. How much, on average, your prediction is off from the actual value, ignoring direction.<br/>
**MSE:** Mean Squared Error. A common way to measure the average of the squared differences between predicted and actual values. Penalizes bigger errors more.<br/>
**RMSE:** Root Mean Squared Error. The square root of MSE, serves to make error values easier to interpret.<br/>
### 1.4 References
[IBM - What is Linear Regression?](https://www.ibm.com/think/topics/linear-regression)<br/>
[Kaggle API Documentation](https://www.kaggle.com/docs/api)<br/>
[Scikit-learn User Guide (Linear Models)](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/linear_model.html)<br/>
### 1.5 Overview

The rest of this document will explain the architechural design of my Google Sock Price Predictive Model. The __System Overview__ will outline the components that make up the system and how they interact with one another. __Design Considerations__ will go over assumptions, constraints, dependencies, goals and guidelines that influenced the design of the model. __Architecture Design__ will include helpful diagrams with descriptions to visualize every part of the system's processes. __Detailed Design__ will then  go into more detail when it comes to each component making up the larger system. Following that, the document will address __Data Design__, __Interface Design__, __Security Considerations__, __Performance Considerations__, __Testing and Validation__ will be covered for completeness. Following that will be __Appendices__ containing additional information.

## 2. System Overview

The system should consist of 5 different components.

#### 1. Data Import
The data will be imported from kaggle using their Kaggle API, then downloaded locally as a CSV file, and enabling the model to interact with the data. This will enable my system to be updated with the latest information.
#### 2. Data Pre-processing
This module will parse for missing data and categorize relevant features properly. This module could also refactor certain data to create new variables for newly relevant information, like how many days it's been since important events. This could be important because of how much stock value can be influenced by world news.
#### 3. Model Training
In this module the data will be used to train the model. 80% of it will be used in order to train the data, and the other 20% will be used to test the data later. Using the training portion, we'll create a line of best fit using a linear regression algorithm and the training data.
#### 4. Model Evaluation
After the model's been trained, we can check its accuracy using our testing portion from earlier. The model's prediction will be tested against the data points not present in the training data to verify the model's correctness.
#### 5. Prediction Module
Following the model's training and testing, actual predictions will be made by the model. Asking the model to, for example, predict the following day's close based off of the current day's open will produce a result in line with our model's understanding of the data. The model can then be saved and utilized later if desired.
## 3. Design Considerations

### 3.1 Assumptions and Dependencies

#### We can assume that:
* It is reasonable to associate a linear relationship between the features of a stock price and the stock's price.
* The data found on Kaggle is accurate and consistent, meaning there are no errors.
* The result of our accurate model will give us a decent idea of the stock's future.

#### The dependencies I expect to use are:
* Kaggle API: For pulling up to date data from Kaggle
* Pandas: For handling data tables within Python
* NumPy: For handling mathematical functions on data tables
* Scikit-learn: For linear regression algorithms and evaluation tools

### 3.2 Constraints

* Language: Python
* Performance: Training speed is negligible, but the prediction speed needs to be quick. No more than 3 seconds in ideal circumstances.

### 3.3 Goals and Guidelines

In order to strengthen clear coding practice, the code should be modular, meaning it will be clear which methods and functions do what, and how they contribute to the larger system. This approach when writing code will make the final product easy to read for anyone. Another goal is to create a model with relatively accurate predictions. A RMSE of <5 dollars will tell us our model is relatively accurate given the data provided.

## 4. Architecture Design

### 4.1 Overview

The system will be set up in such a way that everything is happening in a series, making it easy to manage and clear to observe and understand. Data will flow in, be processed in whatever way is deemed necessary, and used to either train or test, and then predictions can be made.

## 5. Detailed Design

### 5.1 Data Importing Module
* **Purpose**
  Reliably pull Google's stock price data via Kaggle
* **Inputs/Outputs**
  Takes Kaggle API credentials, dataset path, and download destination as input
  Returns raw data as output in the form of a csv file
* **Interfaces**
  Kaggle API client library
* **Dependencies**
    * "kaggle" Python package
    * "os" Python library
  
### 5.2 Data Pre-Processing Module
* **Purpose**
  Preparing the raw data for training and testing the model.
* **Inputs/Outputs**
  Takes the location of the raw data, a list of features (open, high, low, volume) for prediction, and the feature we're predicting (close) as input
  Returns the data sorted by whether it will be used to test or train the model, and by feature (x or y)
* **Interfaces**
  Pandas for reading the CSV
  Scikit-learn for dividing data (train_test_split) and standardizing numbers (StandardScaler)
* **Dependencies**
  "pandas", "numpy", and "scikit-learn" Python libraries
## 6. Data Design

### 6.1 Data Model

ER diagrams, schemas, or data flow between components.

### 6.2 Data Storage

Data will be stored locally. The processed data doesn't need to be saved in any permanent fashion since it'll only be used for training the model. The raw data and the trained models, however, will be stored in individual folders, likely named data and models respectively.

## 7. Interface Design

### 7.1 User Interface (if applicable)

There is no plan for a user interface on this project, so it is not currently being considered.

### 7.2 API Interfaces

The primary API in use for this project will be Kaggle API. It is used to download the raw dataset from Kaggle, which is updated daily. It can be accessed using the following block of code:
```
import kagglehub

# Download latest version
path = kagglehub.dataset_download("emrekaany/google-daily-stock-prices-2004-today")

print("Path to dataset files:", path)
```
An API key is necessary in order to access it. This key will be stored within an external file related to the project.

## 8. Security Considerations

Since this project will be hosted locally on a computer, security is of little concern. Kaggle's API is safe for use and should cause few problems in terms of security.

## 9. Performance Considerations

/Discuss expected performance and optimization strategies./

## 10. Testing and Validation

### 10.1 Unit Testing Strategy

/Approach to test individual components./

### 10.2 Integration Testing Strategy

/Approach to test component interactions./

### 10.3 System Testing Strategy

The full system once completed can be tested in a few ways.
##### 1. Full Run
Using the most up to date data, I will train and run the model, making sure it is able to produce a reasonable result.

##### 2. Accuracy Check
After the full run, I can observe the RMSE, which informs me of how much error the model is predicted to make, and ensure it's of a reasonable value.
## 11. Appendices

Any additional material, diagrams, or information.
